# Upgrade strategy

Applying upgrades is one of the central problems of modern programming. We have a lot of dependencies, from programming languages to libraries to utilities that depend on libraries, etc. So we need to think about upgrade strategy in advance. Here are some possible strategies:

* Design the tool around upgrades. If you aren't designing the tool yourself and you probably are not, then consider how the language facilitates upgrades. Does it frequently break backward compatibility? Does it provide upgrade tools that scan and advise you unnecessary upgrades? The key advantage here is static analysis. So the more static, declarative features that your program uses the easier it will be to analyze an upgrade. Dynamic features are harder to analyze and upgrade.
* Do upgrades more frequently. This is the strategy used by devops for uploads. Because uploads are hard, they do them frequently. That means they experience frequent small problems instead of rare large problems. They also gain ongoing knowledge and experience in uploads. The same strategy can be used for upgrades. Apply upgrades as soon as they become available. Make a list of whatever breaks and use that in regression testing when you apply upgrades the next time. That will make it easier to locate the fragile parts of your code.
* Make your code more modular. Pagemaker does this with widgets, which are self-contained units of JS, CSS, and HTML. The problem with that is that your overall application can't support different versions of  libraries like jQuery. In order to solve that problem, consider breaking down large applications into independent modules so that each one can use a different version of foundational libraries like jQuery. At least PageMaker helps with the task of tracing dependencies because you can assign libraries that depend on jQuery to particular widgets rather than the program as a whole.
